A place to store my vanilla JavaScript solutions to the problems found at Project Euler.


# Project-Euler

I don't have anywhere near as much time to play with Project Euler as I'd like, but on the off chance that I have a spare half an hour hear and there, this is where I will be storing my native JavaScript solutions.

## My Approach

Each solution should be generic, able to be used to answer another question of the same format. For example, Problem 1 is as follows:

"If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23.

Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000."

The solution should allow for finding all of the multiples of X or Y below Z, rather than just 3 or 5 below 1000.

## Problems Solved So Far...

### Problem 1

If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23.

Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000.

### Problem 2

Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

### Problem 3

The prime factors of 13195 are 5, 7, 13 and 29.

What is the largest prime factor of the number 600851475143 ?

### Problem 4

A palindromic number reads the same both ways. The largest palindrome made from the product of two 2-digit numbers is 9009 = 91 99.

Find the largest palindrome made from the product of two 3-digit numbers.

### Problem 5

2520 is the smallest number that can be divided by each of the numbers from 1 to 10 without any remainder.

What is the smallest positive number that is evenly divisible by all of the numbers from 1 to 20?

### Problem 6

The sum of the squares of the first ten natural numbers is,

1^2 + 2^2 + ... + 10^2 = 385

The square of the sum of the first ten natural numbers is,

(1 + 2 + ... + 10)^2 = 55^2 = 3025

Hence the difference between the sum of the squares of the first ten natural numbers and the square of the sum is 3025  385 = 2640.

Find the difference between the sum of the squares of the first one hundred natural numbers and the square of the sum.

### Problem 7

By listing the first six prime numbers: 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, and 13, we can see that the 6th prime is 13.

What is the 10 001st prime number?

## Further Down The Line

I know I'll hit a brick wall soon, in terms of the capabilities of JavaScript (Problem 7 takes over 2 seconds), so plan on utilising web workers. We'll see.
